right now you remember in in uh when
Christ is out in the desert and tempted
by Satan after the 40 days of of
isolation after the baptism that the
third Temptation Of Satan which is I
would say the ultimate temptation is one
of power right now it's very have all of
this right right it's it's
straightforward power and that's the
Temptation that Moses Falls prey to
continually in his work as The Exodus
leader as well it's why he doesn't get
into the promised land like there's a
very strict and it's something that
Christ himself forars utterly no Force
no Force regardless of the provocation
yeah now what you have here in this
doctrine that you just described is not
only the desire for Universal
destruction which as you pointed out is
part and parcel of Marx's celebration of
girus Mephisto me me opilan Doctrine but
also allied with worship of power itself
because otherwise why the forcible
because he could have written the
overthrow of everything that's right and
that could happen at the level of idea
and of course or even the phrase the end
right uh can only be attained with um
with the end of all yeah but no they
want the forceable overthrow which
question so what is it that you want do
you want the end state where
everything's raised to the ground so
that you have a new beginning or do you
want all the absolutely satanic pleasure
of the act of forceable Destruction and
I would say if you spend any time at all
analyzing the history of stalinist
Soviet Union including the leninist
period for all for for that matter what
you see fundamentally is a celebration
of sadistic Devastation right that's the
fundamental ethos that's the fundamental
goal now the flag waving about the new
Utopia that's going to be created in the
future that's all cover story that's all
camouflage the actual worship is because
the things that happened in those
communist countries are so appalling
that unbeliev well that people won't pay
any attention to them because they're
too much to even contemplate right right
and so no one wants to know anything
about them but it seems to me that the
point of dancing naked and triumphantly
in the smoking runes
yeah that's fundamentally the point and
if you happen to be jumping up on down
on the bodies of your enemies and this
and the toppled statues of your culture
so much the better and and and wondering
how it goes how the personal matters
with like the public right okay the he
the end of his Manifesto calls for the
forcible overthrow of everything that
exists so that's an actual policy
prescription at the end right we're
going to forcibly overthrow everything
that exists and as we saw in the private
that's what he believes in his life in
the Poetry so you see it in the Poetry
so you see one one directly leads to the
other his um his hatred of religion
right communism begins where atheism
Begins the the the famous line the
opiate of the masses right that full
quote a lot of people I've heard people
say from time to time well I kind of see
what he's getting out there I religion
can be like a sort of drug for people
right maybe like a placebo maybe like a
crutch but if you read that whole line
um religion is the sigh of the oppressed
creature it is um it is the heart of a
heartless world it is the soul of
soulless conditions it is the Opium of
the people and then lenon picked that up
and said yeah like Mark said uh religion
is the Opium of the masses it is a kind
of spiritual booze it is Medieval Milo
there is nothing more abominable than
religion and so what does that mean
damage that means we're going to shut
down the churches right and we're going
to put them in jail and we're going to
be an officially atheistic country we're
going to create a league of the militant
Godless you're not going to be allowed
to to be a religious person so so the
private thoughts are actually being
implemented and and acted and acted out
well the other thing too about that
phrase is it's actually a lie and it's a
lie in two ways so there's a Canadian
philosopher Taylor who wrote about this
in a book he wrote on identity and he
pointed out that the medieval fear of
hell was at least the equal of the
medieval fear of death okay so that PS a
question is like if your religion is an
opium then why isn't it just all smiley
faces and and fun yeah right why why
well hell is a really good start it's
like and you know the cynics might say
well hell is a convenient place to put
those you hate but that's you have to be
cynical and naive and stupid to come up
with that theory because you're a fool
if you think that the fear of hell was
anything but real among the Believers in
those periods of time where the reality
of hell was Amplified they were
terrified of that right and so what are
you going to do you're going to do
something convoluted like well you have
to leave the Opium with a bit of Terror
so that it becomes believable enough to
be a soporific it's like hey man your
theory is getting a little convoluted at
that point it's like why bother with
hell and so that to me and it's the same
with the Freudian critique you know that
it's a form of immaturity and
overreliance on a benevolent father it's
like well the father isn't all
benevolent there's hell and so you
better watch your step and and part of
that is implemented by Terror and then
there's more to Jesus said you want to
follow me pick up your cross well that's
the next thing it's like okay so we have
Christ the happy face God who asks
people only to believe that everything
is good and there's no price to be paid
for that no that's that's exactly that
that couldn't be a bigger lie because
there isn't a larger sacrifice that is
possible than the one that the founder
of Christianity required of himself and
his followers there's nothing in that in
the least that's opiate now you might
say well the happy thought that you go
to heaven when you die is the opiate
it's like
well wait a second first of all that
only happens if you've actually lived a
good life and the cost of not doing that
is well now we're back to the hell
problem so I don't buy the the Freudian
interpretation that it's all you know
immature dependence on the heavenly
father so to speak and I certainly don't
buy the Marxist doctrine that there's
anything about it that's opiate now you
could say any any naive person and any
person looking for unearned security
could take any Doctrine and use it as a
security blanket and I think there's
some truth in that but boy if you don't
think that applies to radical leftism as
much as it applies to
Christianity far more than it applies to
Christianity you're not thinking in the
least I mean what you see with the
radical leftists on campus now is that
they make the presumption that all the
leftist theorizing is predicated on an
admirable compassion it's like well if
you want an opiate there's one right
hypers simplification pathological hyper
simplification that's morally
self-serving and and dangerous beyond
belief right right so and and and Mark
said I was just looking for the quote
right now and I couldn't find it but but
one of his criticisms of Christianity
later was he said it preaches um
cowardice uh self-contempt
self-abasement self-sacrifice it's like
well yeah I don't know if that preaches
cowardice but but it but it preaches
self sacrifice those things don't go in
the same right exact no they certainly
don't I know but Christ did didn't lack
courage right and but but for Mark it
was about the self selfishness and and
in fact that that moment where uh the
devil is tempting Christ right and and
and Christ says them man does not live
on bread alone right um the Marxist
actually acts as if man does live on
bread alone precisely they they believe
that if you solve the economic problem
if you solve the class problem I mean
that's the key to your Utopia right
there
[Music]